website: 2.0-2.3 post draft (#3370)
transloadit/uppy: website/src/_posts/2021-12-2.1-2.3.md

---

> title: "Uppy 2.1–2.3 or Recently in the Uppy Universe: Audio plugin, Unsplash update, switch to Yarn, Status Bar improvements and more" 

Reviewer: I think the changes to companion are a huge thing and should be highlighted.

```suggestion
title: "Uppy 2.1-2.3: Audio plugin, new fast and efficient streaming for Companion, production-ready Unsplash, and more" 
```

date: 2021-12-15
author: 
  - aduh95
  - murderlon
  - arturi
  - mifi
image: https://uppy.io/images/blog/2.1-2.3/audio-cover.jpg
published: true
---

> After the 2.0 release we’ve been busy refactoring, updating dependencies, moving from npm to Yarn 3 and attending to much-needed housekeeping. We’ve released a new Audio plugin, improved Status Bar and Unsplash plugins and made a few significant improvements to Companion.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After the [release](./2021-08-2.0.md) of our latest major version, 2.0.0, we’ve been busy with a number of things. First of all the long awaited audio plugin to record and upload live audio directly. We also worked on adding a fast and efficient streaming interface to Companion and made Unsplash production-ready. Lastly, we focused on  housekeeping, such as status bar improvements, moving from NPM to Yarn 3, refactoring, and updating dependencies. 
```

<!--more-->

## Audio plugin

> Uppy now has a new `@uppy/audio` plugin for recording audio memos, messages and sounds. Check it out [on the demo page](https://uppy.io/examples/dashboard/).

Reviewer: By saying "messages and sounds" it kind of implies you can add messages in some other form that audio?

<video alt="Audio plugin demo" muted autoplay loop>
  <source src="/images/blog/2.1-2.3/audio-demo.mp4" type="video/mp4">
  Your browser does not support the video tag: https://uppy.io/images/blog/2.1-2.3/audio-demo.mp4
</video>

## `@uppy/unsplash` is now production ready

> The Unsplash plugin has received an update to its UI, it now shows the author of an image, and generally looks better. You can view the [docs on the website](https://uppy.io/docs/unsplash/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Unsplash plugin has received an update, it provides attribution to the image authors, and adds some polish to make it look better. You can view the [docs on the website](https://uppy.io/docs/unsplash/).
```

> <video alt="Audio plugin demo" muted autoplay loop>

Reviewer: Don't think audio demo belongs under unsplash as well 😅

Author: 😱 no, I worked on it so I’ll shove it in Companion section too!

  <source src="/images/blog/2.1-2.3/unsplash-demo.mp4" type="video/mp4">
  Your browser does not support the video tag: https://uppy.io/images/blog/2.1-2.3/unsplash-demo.mp4
</video>

PR [#3196](https://github.com/transloadit/uppy/pull/3196).

> ## Refactor locale scripts & generate types and docs

Reviewer: I would consider putting this either at the bottom or add it to "misc" (which I would name "And more"). I think I prefer the latter.

* Added “x of x files uploaded” below “Upload failed” for extra context.
* Improved the error details button styling in the statusbar and the file info card.
* Status bar state is set to complete if the user manually removes the failed files.

![status bar improvements screenshot](/images/blog/2.1-2.3/status-bar-improvements.jpg)

PR [#3299](https://github.com/transloadit/uppy/pull/3299).

## Yarn v3 instead of npm

We’ve switched the uppy repo to Yarn 3 to improve package install performance — with our complex dependency graph and over 30 packages in a monorepo, we are seeing a speed increase of over a few minutes!

We are using Corepack to make sure all Uppy contributors are using the same version of Yarn. If you are an Uppy contributor, please run the following commands to enable Corepack:

```sh
corepack -v || npm i -g corepack # install Corepack if not already installed
yarn -v || corepack enable # install Yarn through Corepack if not already installed
yarn || corepack yarn install # install npm dependencies using yarn
```

See details in [#3237](https://github.com/transloadit/uppy/pull/3237)

> ## Misc

Reviewer: we have "misc" twice? Should be merged, right?

* @uppy/google-drive: plugin has been updated for brand compliance (#3178)
* @uppy/status-bar: now shows all details on mobile when `showProgressDetails` is `true` (#3174)
* @uppy/core: move `Uppy` class to its own module (#3225)
* @uppy/angular: fix component crash by loosening `package.json` version constraints (#3210)
* @uppy/drop-target: Exposed events (#3238)

## Companion

### Simultaneous upload/download #3159

This removes the need for disk space as data will be buffered in memory and backpressure will be respected. This is especially useful for large files (multi-GB).

> **NOTE:** This is turned off by default (`streamingUpload` / `COMPANION_STREAMING_UPLOAD` option). Do not turn on yet if using TUS for uploads, due to [this tus-js-client bug](https://github.com/tus/tus-js-client/issues/275)

Reviewer: This should get a lot more love in my opinion. It's a good feature and was quite a bit of work! Move it up and explain in better detail why this is good. Perhaps even some benchmarks if its noticeable and we really want to impress people.

cc @mifi @kvz

Reviewer 2: Thanks! I gave it some more love now, and merged the "more" section from companion with the other one.

> ### Misc

Reviewer: I would call this "And more"
```suggestion
### And more
```

You can enable this by setting `streamingUpload` in the Companion [options](https://uppy.io/docs/companion/#Options).

**NOTE:** This is turned off by default. Do not turn it on yet if you’re using TUS for uploads, due to [this tus-js-client bug](https://github.com/tus/tus-js-client/issues/275).

Interested in using Companion? You can use Transloadit hosted Companion on every [plan](https://transloadit.com/pricing/).

## Status bar error state improvements

Status bar plugin would get confused about upload errors in Uppy, and we’ve addressed that:

* Error state is shown if only _one_ failed file instead of _all_ failed files. Used to be stuck in the uploading state when a file failed.
* Added “x of x files uploaded” below “Upload failed” for extra context.
* Improved the error details button styling in the statusbar and the file info card.
* Status bar state is set to complete if the user manually removes the failed files.

![status bar improvements screenshot](/images/blog/2.1-2.3/status-bar-improvements.jpg)

> ## Internal housekeeping

Reviewer: Once sentence below this would be nice to justify the heading
